docs: add ADR about the manifests directory (#3383)
redkubes/otomi-core: adr/2026-06-25-git-server-as-default-values-repo.md

Gitea's database dependency is the specific failure mode this change eliminates. A Gitea upgrade that leaves the database in an inconsistent state, or a database upgrade that Gitea cannot connect to, renders the values repo unreachable. Because ArgoCD pulls continuously, even a brief outage during upgrade propagates into a stalled reconciliation loop.

git-server is also sufficient for evaluation and bootstrap scenarios: a fresh install needs only a place to write the initial values commit; it does not need pull requests, webhooks, or user management.

### Why Gitea is kept as an optional app

Gitea provides features that go beyond storing the values repo — repository browsing, access control, PR workflows, and integration with the `codeRepo` pipeline. Teams that use `codeRepo.gitService: gitea` to build application code depend on it. Making Gitea optional (rather than removing it) preserves those use cases without imposing Gitea's operational cost on installations that do not need it.

### External git for production environments

> Teams operating in production typically already have a managed Git service. Pointing APL at an existing GitHub or GitLab repository avoids running any in-cluster git storage. The `otomi.git.repoUrl`, `otomi.git.username`, and `otomi.git.password` Helm values configure the external repository at install time. These values are consumed once during bootstrap to populate `apl-git-config` and `apl-git-credentials` in the operator namespace; they are not persisted in the values repo itself and do not need to be supplied on subsequent upgrades.

Reviewer: Now it is just one secret `apl-git-config`. Also, values `branch` and `email` are available, but optional.

```suggestion
Teams operating in production typically already have a managed Git service. Pointing APL at an existing GitHub or GitLab repository avoids running any in-cluster git storage. The `otomi.git.repoUrl`, `otomi.git.username`, and `otomi.git.password` (optionally also `branch` and `email`) Helm values configure the external repository at install time. These values are consumed once during bootstrap to populate `apl-git-config` in the `apl-secrets` namespace; they are not persisted in the values repo itself and do not need to be supplied on subsequent upgrades.
```

### Positive consequences

- Platform upgrades no longer have a git-storage failure mode caused by a database restart
- Minimal installations (evaluation, CI) need fewer cluster resources
- Production teams can use a managed git service they already operate and back up

### Negative consequences

- git-server exposes no web UI; operators cannot browse the values repo in-cluster without external tooling
- Gitea must be explicitly enabled for `codeRepo.gitService: gitea` pipelines; it is no longer available by default

### Cloning the values repository from git-server

The values repo is publicly accessible at:

```
https://git.<domainSuffix>/otomi/values.git
```

> Credentials are stored in the `apl-git-credentials` Secret in the operator namespace. Retrieve the hostname and credentials, then clone with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credentials are stored in the `apl-git-config` Secret in the `apl-secrets` namespace. Retrieve the hostname and credentials, then clone with:
```

```sh
HOST=$(kubectl get httproute -n git-server git-server -o jsonpath='{.spec.hostnames[0]}')

> PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret apl-git-credentials -n apl-operator -o jsonpath='{.data.password}' | base64 -d)

Reviewer: We extended the character space for the Git password with recent changes. That is no major issue, but before inserting into the URL it may need URL encoding. More safe is
```suggestion
PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret -n apl-secrets apl-git-config -ojsonpath="{.data.password}" | jq -Rr '@base64d|@uri')
```
